we're taking you live to the UN so um
people are waiting for uh the former
French Minister Katherine Colona to
speak on the findings of an independent
uh report that has been commissioned by
the UN on the uh allegations that um
unwa members are linked to Hamas in some
way and were linked to the October the
7th attacks and that is the uh un uh
Secretary General spokesperson Stefan
Jer standing on stage alongside uh the
former French Minister they're about to
start shall we listen in yeah let's
listen in can speak in French between us
without any Witnesses
hearing uh good afternoon uh everyone
thank you for thank you for being here
it's a pleasure to be back in New York
uh two months after my my first visit
here on speaking to you uh two months
ago at the very beginning of the mission
as you know the Secretary General has
established the independent review in
February to assess I like to quote
whether inra is doing everything in his
power to ensure neutrality and to
respond to allegations of serious
breaches when they are
made the review was also asked to make
recommendations if
necessary this followed s allegations
about uh the uh possible involvement of
some inra individuals in the 7th of
October terrorist attacks on Israel so
I'd like to be very clear on this these
allegations are under investigation by
the
oios internal uh overside Services it is
separate Mission and it is not in our
mandate
let me quickly explain how we've uh
worked for the last uh nine weeks it was
short time frame we have extensively
analyzed the mechanisms and procedures
um in place within
in we have uh traveled including in the
region uh we traveled to Tel Aviv
Shalem Kamala
Aman we met with official as well as
with the UN agencies and NGS we visited
the uh Shu fat refugee camps in
Jerusalem East run by
inra and we visited uh in's headquarters
in
Haman all in all I think we've had
conversations and meetings with over 200
people uh throughout the review
including both of course local and
international uh staff of course but not
only
and I think I've spoken with
representatives of
47 countries and
organizations so the first thing I'd
like to say is that I would like to
personally thank all those who have
given me their time uh support
information and I've been so patient for
answering on many questions and quite
often we came back uh to the same
context to to have further details and I
want you to know that we've received a
very good cooperation
elsewhere everywhere uh from every
single interested party and this is
important for you to know and of course
this was highly
appreciated of course I would like to
thank the three uh research institutes
who worked uh with us they uh had a
thorough research and that was immensely
uh
useful now when uh we come to
substance I would like to say first that
inra plays an
indispensable and
irreplaceable role in the region and
this must be said clearly let's start
from that in the absence of a political
solution we know it provides life-saving
humanitarian Aid
and essential services to the
population and of course as as we speak
uh in this critical time inra has a
vital role in the
humanitarian response in
Gaza overall the findings of the
review are that inra is in place a very
significant number of mechanisms and
procedures to ensure compliance with the
humanitarian principle of neutral
actually probably have a more developed
system than other un organizations or
agencies uh which is a necessity
considering the very difficult
environment complex and difficult
situation in which they operate and uh
the uniqueness of their
mission there's always room for
improvement and some issues related to
neutrality persist this is why this
mission was
created and among some um events I could
U quote for examples instances of uh
staff publicly taking
signs host countries textbooks that
could uh sometimes
content uh contain some uh well
problematic content we we'll go further
in the report with that as well as
politicized Union making
it did happen
um operational
descriptions or or making threats
against the
management I'm presenting this
report and we have the report I think
it's public uh as we speak I'm
presenting the report as the
chair and I have identified eight
critical areas to ensure compliance
within rise neutrality principles let me
go briefly through the eight areas if I
may and then uh I'll take your questions
one is engagement with
donos enhancing interactions between
inra and is donos is
imperative to um Foster trust and to and
to strengthen partnership I've heard it
from so many states at the very
beginning of the
mission and it must be add obviously but
Frankly Speaking I think this is not too
difficult by just increasing the
interactions so recommendations will
include increasing donor updates on uh
the finances on the budget on the
structure of the budget uh on neutrality
allegations or breaches when they
occur two
governance inra as a unique Mission I
repeat but as a very uh interesting
structure they do not have an executive
board they have an advisory commission
and the advisory commission provides
advice so inra would benefit from
stronger governance structures in
support of uh its leadership and of of
what the management tries to pursue as a
strategic line and stopping um here just
for a while you hear me saying this
several times this morning or this
afternoon weather I would like to stress
that the International Community has a
responsibility in helping and supporting
inra in addressing neutrality issues
globally speaking in its Mission
including in helping the agency to
address these difficult challenges it
face sometimes it is a shared
responsibility
we have recommendations for governance
without changing the Mandate it is what
it is and the structure is what it is I
recommend the advisory commission to
meet more regularly maybe at a higher
level uh sometimes uh at the UN
headquarters uh here in New York or
Geneva why not at the level of permanent
reps um I recommend to have neutrality
as a stanging issue on its
agenda is it an issue yes the that's
what we're here for they don't discuss
about it and I recommend create a
dedicated working group for neutrality
to
address this
question
three management internal oversight
capacities or structures and I be quite
direct uh here it is a critical area
where there are major
gaps unra has undertaken um huge and
Comm efforts to to to reform uh its
system and these uh initiatives should
be further expanded we have the uh
oversight and internal Services we have
the ethics office they could be in power
with uh greater a greater
role also very clearly there needs to be
more senior International staff in field
positions in each of the five fields of
operations you know inra is just tiny
percentage of international staff less
than 1% actually and the rest is um
local employees which is quite natural
because it delivers services directly to
the population so nurses are you know
local uh teachers are local uh workers
are local nevertheless they're missing
maybe this management structure that is
needed if we want to see uh other side
being being being um
reinforced in addition to that we've
noted that
um some political influence sometimes is
exercised on decision related to
projects and it shouldn't be the case
this is posing a significant
risk this is not respecting neutrality
so it is crucial also to address this
side of the question
four neutrality of stuff it is not news
that you faces challenges due to the
politization of its staff not all of
them but some of them and usually the
higher go to to uh the positions of
influence the more you'll see that this
is again affecting its
neutrality so it is crucial to reform
prevention strategies and monitoring
strategy the staff should better respect
staff regulations and
rules they have accepted those rules
when entering they've signed they should
respect those rues and the uh agency
should give the appropriate response to
potential
breaches uh it is also needed so coming
to our recommendations some and these
are just a few examples include
regularly sharing the list of employees
digitalized with uh some details of the
employees with host countries and with
Israel it works well in some countries
less with Israel in the past uh years it
could it could have been better but in
the very recent times this has affected
of course by the U Global atmosphere so
H countries and Israel will need to
provide screening results and evidence
if there's any red flag on on a
person we recommend that the agency also
vet uh staff when promoted now each time
you reach a certain level of
responsibility you must be uh
cleared also they have a whistleblower
uh system which is good because when you
see something you can report it it could
and should be strengthened five
neutrality of
installations again um not so much uh
braging new here that uh it did happen
that sometimes inise installations have
been used for uh misus whether I should
say for political or military purposes
uh by various
groups you know not um thinking of one
only here you know various parties
various groups and this is undermining
the neutrality of the insulation it
should not happen preventive measures
enhance monitoring of the stations
transpant reporting or necessary steps
to address this issue effectively so
there should be more
inspections an inspection looking at a
larger scope you know looking Beyond uh
the un
uh logo looking Beyond uh posters and
and and various uh signs um looking a
little bit further we know it's needed
the agency could uh does it but could
expand the uh Community awareness
campaigns that they do on the civilian
nature of these installations they are
civilian installations they are in ra
installation they should be respected
and
protected six neutrality of
Education let me first say that U the
role of Ina is so highly important there
inra
as a system that is crucial
indispensable to several hundreds of
thousands of children in the
region however it has been
reported for many years uh not to say
decades that some schools may have been
utilized to spread political views
violating neutrality principles not
respecting un values not respecting
UNESCO standards you will find
additional material in the
report and though has made considerable
progress uh in in the past few years to
mitigate the risk address to uh some
content promoting hate or uh inciting
violence uh in the textbooks in the
classroom it now needs now needs to
implement a zero tolerance
policy
seven you're almost there neutrality of
self
Union uh uh over the years political
factions have used U inas staff unit
system to to to pressure inas leadership
uh to use um
influence um sometimes causing uh a
repeat operational disruptions and this
is not the role of Staff unions staff
unions should represent the staff uh
they're not quite representative by the
way uh even if a judge only by the
gender uh balance you know 50%
of the staff is women or 50% of them is
men and the other half is women uh when
you go up to the top there's only one
woman representative at the top level um
and
men we know this is one of the most
sensitive issues with all the uh
inflence attached to that
um it it needs to be addressed with the
full support of the advisory commission
and of member
states very recently the commissioner
General um pushed for a reform of the
system it was not supported by the
advisory commission you know you I
cannot be alone facing this issue
without getting support from Member
state in the first place of the advisory
commission so recommendations will be
quite clear hoping to help making it
through they include reforming the 99 90
statute of the Union of area staff of
inra dating
1990 should be
updated and it should be aligned with
the UN staff Union
statute we also uh think an independent
entity should vet uh every staff union
representative eight and we're opening a
door towards a broader scope Beyond uh
what we will achieve now enhanced
Partnerships while respecting fully the
Mandate the Mandate is what it is by the
1949 resolution and actually
specifically in line with this
resolution cooperation with other un
organizations and agencies is
needed it is there uh it has already
been
engaged however
uh especially considering the the the
current crisis in
Gaza and in full respect of the Mandate
of the uh agency I repeat some
additional measures could be considered
to help inra
deliver life- saving assistance to those
in need so I will uh end there there are
some 50 recommendations in the report I
just uh mentioned a few
and I'm confident that implementing
these recommendations will help inra
fulfill its mandate and restore
confidence when needed I presented the
the fightings and the recommendations of
the report to the Secretary General on
Friday during our meeting it was kind
enough to call uh our work important and
decisive for which I'm very grateful and
this morning he issued a a statement
saying that he accepted the
recommendation this is a a very
important decision and a very important
step the Secretary General
endorses the recommendations and so it
is now up to the commission General to
take this forward and to provide a a
clear plan on how the agency will follow
up on these
recommendations and one last note
because I want to repeat that I strongly
believe that member states the
international communities house
countries also need to help inra
Implement these
reforms so it better fulfills this
mandate it is a shared
responsibility obviously thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer